hey this is precious tall Walker and
you're watching mind your decisions this
problem comes from a math competition in
Croatia for 14 year-olds start with a
triangle from one vertex draw a line
segment to the opposite side do the same
thing from another vertex the triangle
is now divided into four different
regions the areas of the triangles
starting from the left are 3 4 & 2 the
question is what is the area of this
quadrilateral I think would say for
suggesting this problem can you figure
it out give this problem a try and when
you're ready keep watching the video for
a solution
[Music]
the main principle and solving this
problem is the formula for the area of a
triangle which is one-half its base
times its height if you have a right
triangle where this is the base and this
is the height its area will be one-half
its base times its height but the
formula also holds as long as a triangle
has a fixed base and its height is the
same so all of these triangles will have
the same area as the original right
triangle so how does this help us solve
the problem well first we're going to
need to do one trick well divide the
quadrilateral right down the middle and
divide its two areas as x and y we want
to solve for x plus y so how can we do
that well we'll use the formula for the
area of a triangle and consider some
ratios of areas of triangles
for example consider this blue triangle
and this blue triangle both of the
triangles have the same height as each
other so the ratio of their areas will
be the ratio of the lengths of their
bases let's call their bases B 1 and B 2
so the area of the top triangle will be
X plus y plus 2
the area the bottom triangle will be
three plus four and the ratio of these
areas will be equal to b1 / b2 and this
is because both of these triangles have
the same height this simplifies to be X
plus y plus 2 all over seven is equal to
b1 plus b2 so now let's look at some
other ratios of areas of triangles here
are two green triangles both of these
triangles have the same heights as each
other so again the ratio of the areas
will be the ratio of the lengths of
their bases now these two triangles have
the same bases of b1 and b2 as the
previous blue triangles so we have x
over 3 is equal to b1 / b2 so now we
have two equations that are both equal
to b1 / b2 therefore we can set these
two equations equal to each other
now let's consider some different
triangles let's consider these two
triangles these triangles have bases b3
and b4 and just like we derived we can
come up with some similar formulas based
on the areas of these triangles the
ratios of these areas will be equal to
b3 over b4 so we have y + x + 3 the area
of the top triangle all over 2 + 4 which
is 6 this ratio will be equal to b3 over
b4 now similarly if we take a look at
these two triangles the ratio of their
areas will also be equal to b3 over b4
so we have Y over 2 is also equal to b3
over b4 so we can now get rid of all
these values of b1 b2 b3 and b4 because
all we really care about is the values
of x and y so we'll first cross multiply
these fractions we'll cross multiply the
fractions on the top then we'll cross
multiply the fractions on the bottom we
now have a system of two equations in
two variables x and y and we'll be able
to solve for unique values of x and y so
let me go through the steps very quickly
first we'll group like terms now
we'll multiply the second equation by
two now in order to solve the system one
thing we can do is we can add these two
equations we'll get that negative 5y
plus 18 is equal to 0 we've eliminated
the X variable by adding these two
equations thus we have Y is equal to 18
over 5 we can now use that value and
substitute it into the second equation
and then solve that X is equal to 21
over 5 so we have values for X and y and
remember we want to solve for X plus y
so the area of this quadrilateral is
equal to X plus y which is 39 over five
or seven point eight and that's our
answer it took a little bit of
imagination to figure out the magic line
but then we use good old-fashioned
geometry and algebra to solve it did you
figure it out thanks for watching this
video these math videos which can be
watched for free on YouTube inspire and
build confidence for people around the
world and they already have over a 100
million views let's share the beauty of
mathematics with your help we can map
the world a better place please
subscribe for free to get the newest
videos watch and share all the mind your
decisions videos and email me a puzzle
or mat topic presh @ mind your decisions
calm if you so choose you can check on
my books which are listed in the video
description and you can support me on
patreon for exclusive rewards thanks for
watching and thanks for your support